Add ROS 2 CLI module to Fast DDS Discovery Server Tutorial (#1028)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Discovery-Server/Discovery-Server.rst

ROS 2 Introspection
-------------------

ROS 2 Command Line Interface (CLI) implements several introspection features to analyze the behaviour of a ROS2 execution.
These features (i.e. ``rosbag``, ``topic list``, etc.) are very helpful to understand a ROS 2 working network.

> Most of these features use the DDS capability to share any topic information with every exiting participant.

Author: I have tried to explain it better.
In Simple Discovery, the info is shared with the participants discovered so far. But every existing participant is (or will be) discovered, and therefore all the info will be shared with every participant.

However, the new Discovery Server v2 implements a traffic network reduction that limits the discovery data between nodes that do not share a topic.
This means that not every node will receive every topic data unless it has a reader in that topic.
As most of ROS 2 CLI Introspection is executed by adding a node into the network (some of them use ROS 2 Daemon,
and some create their own nodes), using Discovery Server v2 we will find that most of these functionalities are limited and do not have all the information.

> The Discovery Server v2 functionality allows every node running as a **Server** (a kind of *Participant type*) to know and share all the participants and topics information with every other server matched.

Author: That is true, sometimes is a bit tricky to difference between Participant, Node and Context, especially regarding ROS 2 Daemon.
I've tried to remove every `Node` referencing Fast-DDS or Discovery Server, and change them for the `Participant` concept.

In this sense, a server can be configured alongside ROS 2 introspection, since then the introspection tool will be able to discover every entity in the network that is using the Discovery Server protocol.

Daemon's related commands
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ROS 2 Daemon is used in several ROS 2 CLI introspection commands. It adds a ROS 2 Node to the network in order to receive all the data sent.
This section will explain how to use ROS 2 CLI with ROS 2 Daemon running as a **Server**.
This will allow the Daemon to know all the Node's graph and to receive every topic and endpoint information.

Fast DDS CLI can execute a Discovery Server, but it will spawn the Server in the actual process (or in a new one),

> and we want to run ROS 2 Daemon process as the Discovery Server.

Reviewer: @jparisu nit: one sentence per line

ROS 2 Introspection
-------------------

> ROS 2 Command Line Interface (CLI) implements several introspection features to analyze the behaviour of a ROS2 network.

Reviewer: @jparisu this documents uses the terms `feature`, `tool`, and `command` almost interchangeably when talking about the CLI. Let's pick one.

Author: I'll go with `tool` as in https://github.com/ros2/ros2cli description. :+1:

These features (i.e. ``ros2 bag record``, ``ros2 topic list``, etc.) are very helpful to understand a ROS 2 working network.

> Most of these features use DDS simple discovery to share every topic information with every existing participant (using simple discovery, every participant in the network is connected with each other).

Reviewer: @jparisu 
```suggestion
Most of these features use DDS simple discovery to exchange topic information with every existing participant (using simple discovery, every participant in the network is connected with each other).
```
perhaps?

> However, the new Discovery Server v2 implements a traffic network reduction scheme that limits the discovery data between participants that do not share a topic.

Reviewer: @jparisu 
```suggestion
However, the new Discovery Server v2 implements a network traffic reduction scheme that limits the discovery data between participants that do not share a topic.
```
perhaps?

This means that not every node will receive every topic's discovery data unless it has a reader for that topic.

> As most ROS 2 CLIs need a node in the network (some of them rely on a running ROS 2 daemon, and some create their own nodes), using the Discovery Server v2 we will find that most of these functionalities are limited and do not have all the information.

Reviewer: @jparisu I think I understand, but what do you mean by *[...] we will find that most of these functionalities are limited and do not have all the information [...]*?

Author: :+1:

The Discovery Server v2 functionality allows every Participant running as a **Server** (a kind of *Participant type*) to know and share all the participants and topics information with every other server matched.
In this sense, a server can be configured alongside ROS 2 introspection, since then the introspection tool will be able to discover every entity in the network that is using the Discovery Server protocol.

.. note::

>     In this section we use the term *Participant* as a DDS entity. Each DDS *Participant* corresponds with a ROS 2 *Context*, a ROS 2 abstraction over DDS.

Reviewer: @jparisu perhaps add a reference to the corresponding [design doc](http://design.ros2.org/articles/Node_to_Participant_mapping.html)?

>     `Nodes <ROS2Nodes>` are another ROS 2 abstraction, and are the ROS 2 entities related with communication: ``listener``, ``talker``, ``service``, etc.

Reviewer: @jparisu hmm, nodes are not communication interfaces, nodes use communication interfaces. There is no such thing as a `talker` entity, that's just a catchy name for a example nodes that bear one topic publisher.

Author: :+1:

    Each *Participant* can hold one or more ROS 2 Nodes.

Daemon's related commands
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The ROS 2 Daemon is used in several ROS 2 CLI introspection commands. It adds a ROS 2 Context to the network in order to receive all the data sent.

Reviewer: @jparisu hmm, contexts do not join the network graph, nodes do.

Author: :+1:

This section will explain how to use ROS 2 CLI with ROS 2 Daemon running as a **Server**.
This will allow the Daemon to know all the Node's graph and to receive every topic and endpoint information.

We can use the Fast DDS XML configuration to configure the ROS 2 daemon as a Discovery Server.

> Below you can find a XML configuration file which will configure every new participant as a Discovery Server.

Reviewer: @jparisu nit:
```suggestion
Below you can find an XML configuration file which will configure every new participant as a Discovery Server.
```

It is important to notice that, in order to create a Discovery Server, port and GUID (id) must be specified.
Thus only one participant at a time can be created with this configuration file.
Creating more than one participant with the same file will lead to an error.

* :download:`XML Discovery Server configuration file <scripts/discovery_server_configuration_file.xml>`

First of all, instantiate a ROS 2 Daemon using this configuration (remember to source ROS 2 installation in every new terminal).

.. code-block:: console

    export FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE=discovery_server_configuration_file.xml
    ros2 daemon stop
    ros2 daemon start

Run a talker and a listener that will discover each other by the Server/Daemon (notice that ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` configuration is the same as the one in ``discovery_server_configuration_file.xml``).

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker

> Now the Daemon can be used to introspect the network (``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` must be exported because new participants are created within this tools' executions).

Reviewer: @jparisu what do you mean by *[...] within this tools' executions [...]*?

Reviewer: Also, 
```suggestion
Now the Daemon can be used to introspect the network (``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` must be exported because new participants are created within these tools' executions).
```

Author: :+1:

In order for these tools to connect with a Discovery Server and receive all the topics information they need to be instantiated as a Server different than the main one, because they are volatile nodes.

We can configure a Discovery Server that is connected to the main Server using a configuration file similar to the one in the previous section.

* :download:`XML Secondary Discovery Server configuration file <scripts/secondary_discovery_server_configuration_file.xml>`

Following the previous configuration, build a simple system with a talker and a listener.

.. code-block:: console

    export FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE=discovery_server_configuration_file.xml
    ros2 daemon stop
    ros2 daemon start

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker

Continue using the ROS 2 CLI with ``--no-daemon`` option with the new configuration.
New nodes will connect with the existing Server and will know every topic.

> Exporting ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` is not needed as the remote server has been configured in the xml file.

Reviewer: @jparisu nit: consider
```suggestion
Exporting ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` is not needed as the remote server has been configured by the XML configuration file.
```

ROS 2 Introspection
-------------------

ROS 2 Command Line Interface (CLI) implements several introspection features to analyze the behaviour of a ROS2 network.
These features (i.e. ``ros2 bag record``, ``ros2 topic list``, etc.) are very helpful to understand a ROS 2 working network.

Most of these features use DDS simple discovery to share every topic information with every existing participant (using simple discovery, every participant in the network is connected with each other).

> However, the new Discovery Server v2 implements a traffic network reduction shceme that limits the discovery data between participants that do not share a topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, the new Discovery Server v2 implements a traffic network reduction scheme that limits the discovery data between participants that do not share a topic.
```

This means that not every node will receive every topic's discovery data unless it has a reader for that topic.

> As most ROS 2 CLIs need a node in the network (some of them rely on a running ROS 2 daemon, and some create their own nodes), using Discovery Server v2 we will find that most of these functionalities are limited and do not have all the information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As most ROS 2 CLIs need a node in the network (some of them rely on a running ROS 2 daemon, and some create their own nodes), using the Discovery Server v2 we will find that most of these functionalities are limited and do not have all the information.
```

The Discovery Server v2 functionality allows every Participant running as a **Server** (a kind of *Participant type*) to know and share all the participants and topics information with every other server matched.
In this sense, a server can be configured alongside ROS 2 introspection, since then the introspection tool will be able to discover every entity in the network that is using the Discovery Server protocol.

.. note::

    In this section we use the term *Participant* as a DDS entity. Each DDS *Participant* corresponds with a ROS 2 *Context*, a ROS 2 abstraction over DDS.
    `Nodes <ROS2Nodes>` are ROS 2 entities: ``publisher``, ``subscription``, ``service``, etc. that relies on DDS communication interfaces: ``DataWriter`` and ``DataReader``.
    Each *Participant* can hold multiple ROS 2 Nodes.
    For further details about these concepts, please visit the `ROS 2 Design web page <http://design.ros2.org/articles/Node_to_Participant_mapping.html>`__

Daemon's related tools
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ROS 2 Daemon is used in several ROS 2 CLI introspection tools.

> It creates it's own Participant to add a ROS 2 Node to the network, in order to receive all the data sent.

Reviewer: @jparisu nit: 
```suggestion
It creates its own Participant to add a ROS 2 Node to the network, in order to receive all the data sent.
```

This section will explain how to use ROS 2 CLI with ROS 2 Daemon running as a **Server**.

> This will allow the Daemon to know all the Node's graph and to receive every topic and endpoint information.

Reviewer: @jparisu graph or network? We should settle (and arguably ROS graph is a much more common term).

> Fast DDS CLI can execute a Discovery Server, but it will spawn the Server in the actual process (or in a new one), and we want to run ROS 2 Daemon process as the Discovery Server.
> For this purpose, Fast DDS XML configuration can be used in order to preconfigure every new participant that is created with this configuration exported.

Reviewer 2: I think this set of sentences is a bit confusing.  I think I know what you mean: we don't want to execute the Discovery Server standalone, but instead we want to execute it as part of the ROS 2 Daemon.  But I think that someone not well versed in this would find this hard to follow.

How about:

```suggestion
We can use the Fast DDS XML configuration to configure the ROS 2 daemon as a Discovery Server.
```

It is important to notice that, in order to create a Discovery Server, port and GUID (id) must be specified.
Thus only one participant at a time can be created with this configuration file.
Creating more than one participant with the same file will lead to an error.

* :download:`XML Discovery Server configuration file <scripts/discovery_server_configuration_file.xml>`

First of all, instantiate a ROS 2 Daemon using this configuration (remember to source ROS 2 installation in every new terminal).

.. code-block:: console

    export FASTRTPS_DEFAULT_PROFILES_FILE=discovery_server_configuration_file.xml
    ros2 daemon stop
    ros2 daemon start

Run a talker and a listener that will discover each other by the Server/Daemon (notice that ``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` configuration is the same as the one in ``discovery_server_configuration_file.xml``).

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp listener --ros-args --remap __node:=listener

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker --ros-args --remap __node:=talker

> Now the Daemon can be used to introspect the network (``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` must be exported because new participant are created within this tools' executions).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now the Daemon can be used to introspect the network (``ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER`` must be exported because new participants are created within this tools' executions).
```

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    ros2 topic list
    ros2 node info /talker
    ros2 topic info /chatter
    ros2 topic echo /chatter

> Be careful to use a different terminal than that of the Daemon for each execution, as some of the introspection tools instantiate their own participants, and only one participant could be instantiated with ``discovery_server_configuration_file.xml`` exported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Be careful to use a different terminal than that of the Daemon for each execution, as some of the introspection tools instantiate their own participants, and only one participant can be instantiated with ``discovery_server_configuration_file.xml`` exported.
```

We can also see the Node's Graph using the ROS 2 tool ``rqt_graph`` as follows.

.. code-block:: console

    export ROS_DISCOVERY_SERVER="127.0.0.1:11811"
    rqt_graph

No Daemon commands
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Some ROS 2 CLI tools can be executed without the ROS 2 Daemon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some ROS 2 CLI tools do not use the ROS 2 Daemon.
```

> In order for these tools to connect with a Discovery Server and receive all the topics information they need to be instantiated as a Server different than the main one, because they are volatile nodes.

Reviewer: @jparisu what do you mean by volatile here? Short lived?

> We can configure a Discovery Server that is connected to the main Server using a similar configuration file than the one in the previous section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can configure a Discovery Server that is connected to the main Server using a configuration file similar to the one in the previous section.
```

* :download:`XML Secondary Discovery Server configuration file <scripts/secondary_discovery_server_configuration_file.xml>`

> Following the previous configuration, build a simple system with a talker and a listener.

Reviewer: @jparisu nit: 
```suggestion
Following the previous configuration, build a simple system with a talker and a listener:
```
The same for every paragraph leading to one or more pre formatted snippets.
